Sword Attack at Church in Indonesia Injures Four, Including German Priest
Statues of Jesus Christ, the Virgin Mary were reportedly decapitated by the suspect, who was shot and subdued by police

JAKARTA, Indonesia—A sword-wielding man attacked a church during services Sunday in Indonesia, injuring an elderly German priest and three other people before officers shot and subdued him, police said.

The attacker entered St. Lidwina church in Yogyakarta province’s Sleman district—located on the island of Java—during Mass, police and witnesses said. The priest and two worshipers were injured, as was a responding police officer.


A video, widely shared on social media, shows a man brandishing a sword inside the church. Though the footage has been independently verified and corroborates official reports, the Journal was unable to identify its source.

Police said the suspect, who was shot in the legs by officers, was identified as Suliyono, in his early 20s.

“We are still investigating his motive,’’ said police spokesman Yuliyanto, who goes by only one name. He urged the public to remain calm.

Churches have frequently been targets of Islamic terrorism in Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim-majority country, but the issue has taken on a new urgency since the Islamic State group has intensified calls for attacks world-wide by supporters using whatever means they can.

A parish priest, Yohanes Dwi Harsanto, said around 200 people were attending Mass when the attacker struck. “We are calming everyone here, especially children, who might find it traumatic,” he said. One of the victims was Karl Edmund Prier, a priest of German origin in his 80s, Mr. Dwi Harsanto said. The attacker decapitated statues of Jesus Christ and the Virgin Mary at the church.

An Islamic State-linked terrorist attack in downtown Jakarta, the capital, in January 2016 left eight people dead, including the perpetrators. The attack was the country’s deadliest in recent years.

Since that attack, police have regularly arrested suspected terrorists and foiled numerous planned attacks, most of which involved rudimentary bombs and other weapons.

Despite a long history of tolerance, Indonesia is grappling with a rising wave of Islamic conservatism in politics, which led to voters ousting Jakarta’s Christian governor last year over blasphemy charges. Hard-line groups have recently attracted hundreds of thousands of people in street protests.

Just under 90% of Indonesia’s 250 million people are Muslim, while Christian denominations account for some 9%. The country, whose constitution guarantees freedom of religion, also has small Hindu, Buddhist and Confucian minorities.