Rangers job an amazing opportunity for Steven Gerrard, says Mark Schwarzer
Mark Schwarzer thinks the manager's job at Rangers would be an amazing opportunity for Steven Gerrard, but warned the former England captain's playing career will not guarantee him success as a manager.

Sky Sports News understands Gerrard, who has been working at Liverpool's academy since retiring in November 2016, is a contender to become the next manager of Rangers.

Initial talks have been held between Gerrard and the Ibrox hierarchy over the 37-year-old potentially replacing Graeme Murty.Speaking on The Debate, the former Fulham goalkeeper said: "It is an incredible opportunity and it is one that has obviously come about because it is Steven Gerrard and what he has accomplished in the game."He has got to utilise that opportunity. Your name can take you so far but ultimately then you are judged on performances. If he takes this job, it's about how he then performs as a manager at the club."Over the course of time we have seen big names go into management and they have failed because they haven't been able to deliver as a manager.

"There are no guarantees that there is going to be success, however, it will open doors up for him and this opportunity is there. If it is correct, it is an amazing opportunity for him."Former England defender Matthew Upson, who was a guest alongside Schwarzer, thinks the challenges Gerrard could potentially face at Rangers will stand him in good stead should he ever get the chance to manage Liverpool in the future.

When asked if Rangers is too big a first job in management for Gerrard, Upson said: "Honestly, for someone like him I don't see it as an issue.

"I almost see it as the perfect thing because if you have got aspirations to manage Liverpool, a massive club with a huge European history, then why not make those mistakes on not-as-big a scale."I am not saying it's not a big scale but in the Scottish league it's not quite the spotlight as what you would be getting at a Premier League club. I think it could be an ideal fit in that sense.

"[Rangers] are also in a situation where they are not in their best place," he added. "There is a lot of work to do to improve them so from his point of view it's an exciting project.

"You also still have the experience of managing under pressure at a big stadium, in front of a big crowd and under high expectation. They are all the things he is going to have to deal with if he wants to manage Liverpool."

Celtic host Rangers at Celtic Park, live on Sky Sports Football from 11.30am on Sunday.